.TH ALGOCHAINS 1 "June 2026" "AlgoChains 22.4.1" "AlgoChains CLI Manual"

.SH NAME
algochains \- AI-native algorithmic trading CLI with 533 MCP tools

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B algochains
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fICOMMAND\fR] [\fIARGS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
AlgoChains CLI provides an interactive REPL and one-shot command access to the AlgoChains MCP server (533 tools across live trading, backtesting, market data, marketplace, and AI intelligence).

Running \fBalgochains\fR with no arguments launches the interactive REPL.

.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-profile \fINAME\fR
Active credential profile: \fIdemo\fR (default), \fIpaper\fR, or \fIlive\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Preview T2/T3 (paper/live) actions without executing them.
.TP
.B \-\-safe\-only
Block all T2/T3 tools (read-only + compute only).
.TP
.B \-\-confirm
Required flag for T3/LIVE tools (place-order, flatten-position, restart-bot).
.TP
.B \-\-json
Output structured JSON instead of human-readable text.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
Verbose output with timing and debug information.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show version and exit.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show help and exit.

.SH TRUST LADDER
All tools are classified into trust tiers:
.PP
.RS
\fBT0 — READ\fR: discover-tools, detect-market-regime, get-bot-health, market data. Always allowed.
.PP
\fBT1 — COMPUTE\fR: run-backtest, optimize-strategy, dispatch-tower-job. Requires \-\-confirm or paper/live profile.
.PP
\fBT2 — PAPER\fR: place-order (paper broker), subscribe-to-bot. Requires paper profile.
.PP
\fBT3 — LIVE\fR: place-order (live), flatten-position, restart-bot. Requires live profile + \-\-confirm.
.RE

.SH KILL SWITCH
The kill switch blocks all T2/T3 operations immediately, regardless of other flags.
.PP
.RS
.nf
algochains killswitch on [--reason TEXT]    # activate
algochains killswitch off                   # deactivate
algochains killswitch status                # check state
.fi
.RE

When active, the KILLSWITCH file exists at \fI~/.algochains/KILLSWITCH\fR.

.SH COMMANDS

.TP
.B doctor [\-\-fix] [\-\-quick]
Pre-flight health checks: broker auth, MCP bridge, Onyx/Graphiti reachability, kill switch, market session, disk space.

.TP
.B auth set \fISERVICE\fR
Interactive prompts to store credentials in the OS keyring.
Services: tradovate, alpaca, polygon, oanda, ibkr, kalshi, onyx, openai, anthropic.

.TP
.B auth list
Show all authenticated services and how credentials are stored (keyring or file).

.TP
.B auth rotate \fISERVICE\fR
Re-prompt and update credentials for a service.

.TP
.B auth clear \fISERVICE\fR|all
Remove stored credentials.

.TP
.B auth test \fISERVICE\fR
Verify that stored credentials are valid against the live API.

.TP
.B daemon start|stop|status|logs|install|uninstall
Manage the background daemon (SSE stream on localhost:39337).
\fBdaemon install\fR registers as a launchd service on macOS (auto-start on login).

.TP
.B killswitch on|off|status
Emergency stop for all T2/T3 operations.

.TP
.B audit tail [\-n N]
Show last N audit log entries (default 50). Audit captures all T2/T3 tool invocations.

.TP
.B completion \fISHELL\fR
Generate shell completion for bash, zsh, fish, or powershell.
.br
Install: \fBalgochains completion bash >> ~/.bashrc\fR

.TP
.B plugin install \fINAME\fR [\-\-allow\-community]
Install an official (@algochains/plugin-*) or community (github:user/repo) plugin.

.TP
.B plugin list
List installed plugins with their tools and trust level.

.TP
.B plugin remove \fINAME\fR
Uninstall a plugin.

.TP
.B trigger add \fITYPE\fR \fISCHEDULE\fR \fICOMMAND\fR
Add an automation trigger. Types: cron, watch, webhook, datetime.
.br
Examples:
.RS
.nf
algochains trigger add cron "0 9 * * 1-5" "detect-market-regime --json"
algochains trigger add watch ~/.algochains/state/signal_health.json "get-bot-health"
.fi
.RE

.TP
.B trigger list|disable|enable|remove
Manage configured triggers.

.TP
.B config init|show|generate \fITARGET\fR
Manage configuration. \fIgenerate\fR creates IDE MCP configs (cursor, claude-desktop, windsurf).

.TP
.B version
Show AlgoChains CLI and MCP server version.

.SH DIRECT TOOL CALLS
Any unrecognized command is treated as a direct MCP tool call:
.PP
.RS
.nf
algochains detect-market-regime
algochains get-bot-health
algochains discover-tools --query portfolio
algochains run-backtest --strategy RSI --symbol AAPL --days 365
algochains place-order --broker alpaca --symbol AAPL --side buy --qty 10 --confirm
.fi
.RE

.SH INTERACTIVE REPL
Running \fBalgochains\fR with no arguments launches the REPL. Slash commands:
.PP
.RS
.nf
/help           show help
/tools [query]  discover tools
/cost           show session cost
/history [n]    show command history
/profile        show active profile
/kill on|off    toggle kill switch
/doctor         run health checks
/clear          clear output
/exit           exit
.fi
.RE

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.algochains/config.toml
CLI configuration (profiles, REPL settings, daemon port).
.TP
.I ~/.algochains/credentials.toml
Credential file fallback (mode 0600). Prefer OS keyring.
.TP
.I ~/.algochains/KILLSWITCH
Kill switch file. Existence blocks all T2/T3 operations.
.TP
.I ~/.algochains/audit.jsonl
Append-only audit log of all T2/T3 operations.
.TP
.I ~/.algochains/history.jsonl
REPL command history.
.TP
.I ~/.algochains/triggers.json
Configured automation triggers.
.TP
.I ~/.algochains/daemon.pid
Daemon process ID (written when daemon starts).
.TP
.I ~/.algochains/daemon.token
Random 64-char SSE authentication token (mode 0600).
.TP
.I ~/.algochains/plugins/
Installed plugin directories.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B ALGOCHAINS_BRIDGE_KEY
Developer API key for the hosted MCP bridge (from algochains.ai/account/developer-keys).
.TP
.B ALGOCHAINS_BRIDGE_URL
Override MCP bridge URL (default: http://127.0.0.1:8090).
.TP
.B ALGOCHAINS_MCP_SERVER_ROOT
Path to algochains-mcp-server repo root (for IDE config generation).
.TP
.B ALGOCHAINS_CONTROL_TOWER
Path to algochains-control-tower repo root (for live bot state).
.TP
.B ALGOCHAINS_TOOL_MODE
MCP tool mode: smart (181 tools, default) or full (533 tools).

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# First-time setup
algochains doctor
algochains auth set alpaca
algochains auth set tradovate

# Demo mode (no credentials)
algochains --profile demo detect-market-regime

# Paper trading
algochains --profile paper place-order --broker alpaca --symbol AAPL --side buy --qty 10 --confirm

# Live trading (with kill switch)
algochains --profile live get-bot-health
algochains killswitch on --reason "earnings blackout"

# Strategy research
algochains discover-tools --query "backtesting momentum"
algochains run-backtest --strategy RSI --symbol AAPL --days 365 --confirm

# Automation
algochains trigger add cron "0 9 * * 1-5" "detect-market-regime --json"
algochains daemon start

# IDE setup
algochains config generate cursor
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR algochains-doctor (1),
.BR algochains-daemon (1)

.SH AUTHOR
AlgoChains <team@algochains.ai>

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs at https://github.com/AlgoChains/algochains-mcp-server/issues

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2026 AlgoChains. Licensed under the MIT License.
